Over the past 10 years we have
analyzed companies of all kinds.
We have worked with
multinationals, we have worked with
family companies, we have worked
with start-ups and if we had
to determine or highlight a factor
above the others that we consider
to be determinant of the sustained
medium-term success of a company,
we are not talking about a balloon,
we are talking about creating
a company that is sustainable,
that is healthy, because we would
not talk about the business model,
we would not talk about
the entry barriers, we would
not talk about scalability,
we would not talk about
efficiency in operations, etc.
Above all that, if we had
to highlight one factor, we
would highlight the ability
to orient customers.
What does this mean?
It is now called a customer-
centric company.
How can we define this?
Well, look, basically companies,
and this is the reality, make
decisions always thinking
about themselves.
And I would like you to make
the diagnosis, look around,
think about your company, your
job, whatever it is, and really
ask yourself if the decisions
you are making every day,
the plans you are making,
etc., where is the customer
there?
Are you thinking about bringing
more value to customers or are
you thinking about your own benefits?
Are you thinking about selling more,
earning more money, etc., in the bonus,
whatever it is?
Because 99% of companies, 99%
of the time, make decisions
thinking of their own interests.
And when we talk about
an organization that
is truly customer-centric, a
paradigm change has to be made.
You always have to think
about the customers first.
That is, make decisions that
are oriented to the benefit of
customers, not your own benefit.
I will give you an anecdote.
François Michelin, Michelin's CEO
for many years, made a very
controversial decision in the
Board of Directors.
It was suggested that a new technology
had emerged that would allow
them to increase or triple
the durability, the duration
of the tyres.
Of course, keep in mind that this
leads you to the rotation, forgive
me, to the customer repetition
being lower, that is, you'll
sell less.
The rest of the Board
of Directors was absolutely
against implementing
this new technology.
And Michelin's saying is, if
it's good for our customers,
it's good for us.
In the end, as he commanded,
the new technology was implanted,
Michelin tyres improved a lot
and with decisions like this
has managed to be the leader
for the last 30 years.
It is a proof that when you make
decisions that may seem at the
time that are against nature,
you make decisions thinking about the
benefits of the customer and not
your own benefits, in the
end, in the medium term, you
are sure to make better.
We will continue to compare
the differences between companies
that are self-centered and those
that are customer-centered.
We can say that the customer
is usually a means.
Businesses, their mission is to make
more money and the customer is
a means to do so.
But we should take this to the extreme
and we should think that the customer
is a goal, that your mission is to generate
more value to the customer.
And I guarantee you that if you
do this, in the end, the results
and business goals will go better.
Another difference in focusing
is, what is it that almost
all companies do?
They create products and
services and they push them.
It is a push strategy, pushing
them into a market where there
are more competitors.
Well, if you are really
customer-centric, what you're going
to do is, you're going to devote a lot
of your effort to understanding
your customers, to know what hurts
them, to think about how you
can bring them more value.
And you will develop value proposals
that are adapted to that.
What is it you will?
That instead of having to push your
products into the market, the demand
for your product will grow and
you will be bought.
Finally, companies usually
define goals and metrics
that are aligned with
those goals.
And what are they?
You can sell more, earn more money, etc.
Where is the customer here?
Nowhere at all.
As I said, the client is
a means to that goal.
Well, the customer-centric
companies do what they do is, in addition
to the usual metrics, because all
the companies in the world obviously
have a few goals, sales, profits,
etc., we have to incorporate
metrics that are representative
of that we are generating
more value to our customers,
that we will see them.
Well, I think that with this you can
already get quite a bit of the idea
that the reality is that the vast
majority of companies are
focused on their goals.
But this is good, that is, it's
an opportunity, because the
few companies we think of
the real customer, what we
find is that we generate
competitive advantages very quickly.
And look, I'll give you more examples.
Let's talk about Amazon, for example.
Jeff Bezos has always said he wants to
be the world's most customer-centered
company.
What does this mean from the
customer's perspective?
Well, because I have lived it many times.
Amazon has surprised me many
times, especially in the after-
sales service.
In the return policy, for
example.
You want to return a product, you return
it and you are almost not asked any questions.
They come to your house for this product.
Sometimes you don't even have
to return the product you bought.
I will give you a closer example,
such as Mercadona.
At Mercadona, I have heard many
times from Mercadona customers who
value the fact that within the
stores they find it very easy
to find all the products.
And instead, there have been other
chains that what they have always
done is seeking to increase, looking
to make attach or cross-
sell, that is, to increase something,
the average ticket, the shopping
basket, what they do is
small modifications of the
routes, where the products are
located, etc.
Because they can sell a little
more because they are distracting you.
But really, from a customer
perspective that is the best,
what you want is that it's easier
for you.
Well, the proof is that Mercadona
has grown much more than the others
in recent years and has become
the undisputed leader
in the sector.